
When deciding how to design an artificial neural network, one potential decision that has already been made is the type of ANN. In this case we are to implemnt a simple back propogration network. Another is what the neural network will be made to learn about. In this case we have been provided two functions that the network will need to learn to approximate. Another decision is (which may not necessarily be a realistic choice in a real world scenario) is how clean the learning data is. In this case we will implement one network that has ideal data as an input, and another that has noise incorporated into the learning. When designing a network, one aspect that needs to be defined for implementation is picking the number of inputs and outputs. Depending on what you are attempting to model there are many choices that could potentially be made. Such as whether or not to include certain aspects of a system as inputs to the network. In this case we were provided an already defined function with a given number of inputs and outputs, so there is no decisions to be made.

Even with these portions of the network already decided before beginning, there is still more to decide on to complete the network. One is to decide how deep the network is. Could it translate directly from inputs to outputs? Since the given functions are not linear then the answer is no. Instead the network will need one or more hidden layers. Another decision is how wide the network is, or how many neurons to have in each network. Adding more will allow the network to learn better, but it will slow down the process with added computation time. Another choice is whether or not to include a bias neuron for each layer, as this will allow the decision boundary for a given neuron to deviate from the origin. Another is whether or not to include a momentum parameter, and if so then deciding on a value for it. Then there is the value of the Threshold, or at what point the error is sufficiently small as to stop training the network. In a similar vein there's the value of the maximum number of iterations to complete if the threshold value is never met.

Tuning these value will come down to experimentation because it can be hard to predict exactly what effect they will have. I will choose moderate default values to start with for all the networks, and then tweak them to try to get a better performing network.
